### 3.7 We have 2008 data on $INCOME$ = income per capita (in thousands of dollars) and $BACHELOR$ = percentage of the population with a bachelor’s degree or more for the 50 U.S. States plus the District of Columbia, a total of N = 51 observations. The results from a simple linear regression of $INCOME$ on $BACHELOR$ are

$$
\hat{INCOME} \quad =  \quad (a) \quad +  \quad 1.029BACHELOR
$$
$$
se \qquad \quad (2.672) \qquad \quad (c) \qquad
$$
$$
t \qquad \quad (4.31) \qquad \quad (10.75)
$$

---

#### a. Using the information provided calculate the estimated intercept. Show your work.

$b_1 = 11.51632$

#### b. Sketch the estimated relationship. Is it increasing or decreasing? Is it a positive or inverse relationship? Is it increasing or decreasing at a constant rate or is it increasing or decreasing at an increasing rate?

The estimated relationship between INCOME and BACHELOR is increasing at a constant rate. 

#### c. Using the information provided calculate the standard error of the slope coefficient. Show your work.

$t = 0.0957$ 

#### d. What is the value of the $t$-statistic for the null hypothesis that the intercept parameter equals 10?

$t = 0.567$

#### e. The $p$-value for a two-tail test that the intercept parameter equals 10, from part (d), is 0.572. Show the $p$-value in a sketch. On the sketch, show the rejection region if $\alpha = 0.05$.

The rejection region for a 5% test are $t \geq 2.0096$ or $t \leq −2.0096$. 

#### f. Construct a 99% interval estimate of the slope. Interpret the interval estimate.

$[0.7725, 1.2855]$

#### g. Test the null hypothesis that the slope coefficient is one against the alternative that it is not one at the 5% level of significance. State the economic result of the test, in the context of this problem.
The calculated t-value is $t = 0.303$.    
We fail to reject $H_0: \beta_2 = 1$.
