### 3.17 Consider the regression model $WAGE = β_1 +β_2EDUC +e$,where $WAGE$ is hourly wage rate in U.S.  2013 dollars and $EDUC$ is years of education, or schooling. The model is estimated twice, once using individuals from an urban area, and again for individuals in a rural area.


$$ Urban \quad \widehat{WAGE} = -10.76 + 2.46 \cdot EDUC, \quad N = 986 $$
$$ (se) \qquad \quad  (2.27) \qquad (0.16) \qquad$$

$$ Rural \quad \widehat{WAGE} = -4.88 + 1.80 \cdot EDUC, \quad N = 214 $$
$$(se) \qquad \quad  (3.29)  \qquad (0.24) \qquad$$    

-----
#### a. Using the urban regression, test the null hypothesis that the regression slope equals 1.80 against the alternative that it is greater than 1.80. Use the $\alpha = 0.05$ level of significance. Show all steps, including a graph of the critical region and state your conclusion.

The calculated value of the t-statistic is $t = 4.125$, which falls in the rejection region, so we 
reject $H_0$ and accept $H_1$. 

#### b. Using the rural regression, compute a 95% interval estimate for expected $WAGE$ if $EDUC = 16$. The required standard error is 0.833. Show how it is calculated using the fact that the estimated covariance between the intercept and slope coefficients is −0.761.

$[22.287, 25.553]$

#### c. Using the urban regression, compute a 95% interval estimate for expected $WAGE$ if $EDUC = 16$. The estimated covariance between the intercept and slope coefficients is −0.345. Is the interval estimate for the urban regression wider or narrower than that for the rural regression in (b). Do you find this plausible? Explain.

$[27.00, 30.20]$

#### d. Using the rural regression, test the hypothesis that the intercept parameter $\beta_1$ equals four, or more, against the alternative that it is less than four, at the 1% level of significance.

The calculated value of the t-statistic is $t = −2.70$ , which falls in the rejection region.
