### 11.1 Our aim is to estimate the parameters of the simultaneous equations model
$$
y_1 = \alpha_1 y_2 + e_1
$$
$$
y_2 = \alpha_2 y_1 + \beta_1 x_1 + \beta_2 x_2 + e_2
$$

### We assume that $x_1$ and $x_2$ are exogenous and uncorrelated with the error terms $e_1$ and $e_2$.

#### a. Solve the two structural equations for the reduced-form equation for $y_2$, that is, $y_2 = \pi_1 x_1 + \pi_2 x_2 + v_2.$ Express the reduced-form parameters in terms of the structural parameters and the reduced-form error in terms of the **structural parameters** and $e_1$ and $e_2$. Show that $y_2$ is correlated with $e_1$.

#### b. Which equation parameters are consistently estimated using OLS? Explain.

#### c. Which parameters are “identified,” in the simultaneous equations sense? Explain your reasoning.

#### d. To estimate the parameters of the reduced-form equation for $y_2$ using the method of moments (MOM), which was introduced in Section 10.3, the two moment equations are
$$
N^{−1}\sum{x_{i1}(y_2 − \pi_1 x_{i1} − \pi_2 x_{i2})} = 0
$$

N−1Σxi2
(
y2 − π1xi1 − π2xi2
)
= 0
Explain why these two moment conditions are a valid basis for obtaining consistent estimators of
the reduced-form parameters.
e. Are the MOM estimators in part (d) the same as the OLS estimators? Form the sum of squared
errors function for y2 = π1x1 + π2x2 + v2 and find the first derivatives. Set these to zero and show
that they are equivalent to the two equations in part (d).
f. Using
Σx2
i1 = 1,
Σx2
i2 = 1,
Σxi1xi2 = 0,
Σxi1y1i = 2,
Σxi1y2i = 3,
Σxi2y1i = 3,
Σxi2y2i = 4,
and the two moment conditions in part (d) show that the MOM/OLS estimates of π1 and π2 are
̂π1 = 3 and ̂π2 = 4.
g. The fitted value ̂y2 = ̂π1x1 + ̂π2x2. Explain why we can use the moment condition
Σ
̂yi2
(
yi1 − α1yi2
)
= 0 as a valid basis for consistently estimating α1. Obtain the IV estimate
of α1.
h. Find the 2SLS estimate of α1 by applying OLS to y1 = α1
̂y2 + e∗
1. Compare your answer to that in
part (g).
