### 11.30 Example 11.3 introduces Klein’s Model I. Use the data file *klein* to answer the following questions.
---

#### a. Estimate the investment function in equation (11.18) by OLS. Comment on the signs and significance of the coefficients.

#### b. Estimate the reduced-form equation for profits, $P_t$, using all eight exogenous and predetermined variables as explanatory variables. Test the joint significance of all the variables except lagged profits, $P_{t−1}$, and lagged capital stock, $K_{t−1}$. Save the residuals, ̂$\hat{v_t}$ and compute the fitted values, $\hat{P_t}$.

#### c. The Hausman test for the presence of endogenous explanatory variables is discussed in Section 10.4.1. It is implemented by adding the reduced-form residuals to the structural equation and testing their significance, that is, using OLS estimate the model

$$
I_t = \beta_1 + \beta_2P_t + \beta_3P_{t-1} + \beta_4K_{t-1} + \delta\hat{v_t} + e_{2t}
$$

#### Use a t-test for the null hypothesis $H0: \delta = 0$ versus $H1: \delta \neq 0$ at the 5% level of significance. By rejecting the null hypothesis, we conclude that Pt is endogenous. What do we conclude from the test? In the context of this simultaneous equations model what result should we find?

#### d. Obtain the 2SLS estimates of the investment equation using all eight exogenous and predetermined variables as IVs and software designed for 2SLS. Compare the estimates to the OLS estimates in part (a). Do you find any important differences?

#### e. Estimate the second-stage model $I_t = \beta_1 + \beta_2\hat{P_t} + \beta_3P_{t-1} + \beta_4K_{t-1} + \delta\hat{v_t} + e_{2t}$ by OLS. Compare the estimates and standard errors from this estimation to those in part (d). What differences are there?

#### f. Let the 2SLS residuals from part (e) be $e_{2t}$. Regress these residuals on all the exogenous and predetermined variables. If these instruments are valid, then the $R^2$ from this regression should be low, and none of the variables are statistically significant. The Sargan test for instrument validity is discussed in Section 10.4.3. The test statistic $TR^2$ has a chi-square distribution with degrees of freedom equal to the number of “surplus” IVs if the surplus instruments are valid. The investment equation includes three exogenous and/or predetermined variables out of the total of eight possible. There are $L = 5$ external instruments and $B = 1$ right-hand side endogenous variables. Compare the value of the test statistic to the 95th percentile value from the $\khai^2_{(4)}$ distribution. What do we conclude about the validity of the surplus instruments in this case?
