### 10.18 Consider the data file *mroz* on working wives. Use the 428 observations on married women who participate in the labor force. In this exercise, we examine the effectiveness of a parent’s college education as an instrumental variable.
---

#### a. Create two new variables. $MOTHERCOLL$ is a dummy variable equaling one if $MOTHEREDUC>12$, zero otherwise. Similarly, $FATHERCOLL$ equals one if $FATHEREDUC>12$ and zero otherwise. What percentage of parents have some college education in this sample?

#### b. Find the correlations between $EDUC$, $MOTHERCOLL$, and $FATHERCOLL$. Are the magnitudes of these correlations important? Can you make a logical argument why $MOTHERCOLL$ and $FATHERCOLL$ might be better instruments than $MOTHEREDUC$ and $FATHEREDUC$?

#### c. Estimate the wage equation in Example 10.5 using $MOTHERCOLL$ as the instrumental variable. What is the 95% interval estimate for the coefficient of $EDUC$?

#### d. For the problem in part (c), estimate the first-stage equation. What is the value of the F-test statistic for the hypothesis that $MOTHERCOLL$ has no effect on $EDUC$? Is $MOTHERCOLL$ a strong instrument?

#### e. Estimate the wage equation in Example 10.5 using $MOTHERCOLL$ and $FATHERCOLL$ as the instrumental variables. What is the 95% interval estimate for the coefficient of $EDUC$? Is it narrower or wider than the one in part (c)?

#### f. For the problem in part (e), estimate the first-stage equation. Test the joint significance of $MOTHERCOLL$ and $FATHERCOLL$. Do these instruments seem adequately strong?

#### g. For the IV estimation in part (e), test the validity of the surplus instrument. What do you conclude?
